---
title: KoboldKare
contributors:
  - GenericJoJoke
  - Toad
---

## What is KoboldKare?

KoboldKare is a NSFW game developed by Naelstrof where the main activity
is to raise cute Kobolds and sell them for profit to buy more Kobolds or
tools. The player can manipulate the bodyshape of the Kobolds (breast,
belly, penis, and size expansion currently) by feeding them various
Liquids which are obtained by grinding down Melons, Eggplants, Hearts,
and other things.

## The [Locations](Locations "wikilink")

<strong>[House](Locations#House "wikilink"):</strong> This is where you
start the game. There is a bedroom, two bathrooms, a kitchen, a loft, a
laundry room, two kobolds, and a few dildos and flasks with various
growth liquids.

<strong>[Yard](Locations#Yard "wikilink"):</strong> That's the open
space right outside your house where you do most of the growing and
grinding in every sense of the word. Here you'll find a water fountain,
a grinder and a hole for selling Kobolds.

<strong>[Town](Locations#Town "wikilink"):</strong> When you go down the
valley, you'll find a building where you spend your money. In the Shop
you can buy sprayers and crates. Future development will let you buy
more, like dildos.

<strong>[Forest](Locations#Forest "wikilink"):</strong> If you go up the
valley you enter the forest. There are melons, eggplants, and bananas to
pick, as well as upgrade your carrying capacity in the tent. --\>

## [Items/Tools/Liquids](Items "wikilink")

See [the Items page](Items "wikilink") for more information on these.

## Kobolds in detail

Kobolds go through 3 stages during their growth: Egg, grounded, and then
fully grown. To advance each stage you need to spray them with any
liquid until a bunch of hearts pop up. After that you need to wait an
entire day/night cycle for them to grow to the next stage. The easiest
way to skip this is to sleep in the bed. If a day passes on a fully
grown kobold, they will be snatched by the Night Monster. That's why
it's important to put anything "spoilable" in the kitchen before you go
to sleep. Besides the penis, male and female Kobolds work the same way.

## [Movement](Movement "wikilink")

In KoboldKare you aren't restricted to just moving on the ground at a
snails pace. Thanks to the physics system which can be compared to quake
or Valve games, you can strafe mid air and gain huge momentum trough
repeated jumps. The easiest way to build momentum is by moving forward
and just holding jump. With each jump you gain more speed until a
certain cap and you won't loose this speed when you do turns midair.
It's also possible to slide of slanted walls and with some training you
can even launch into the skies this way. All of this is possible even
when you're carrying 1 or 100+ items.
